All right, let's go through it together.
This problem was that the user
would type in a rant,
probably a rant that they
would regret actually sending.
And even though they
delete everything in it,
when we reload the page our remember text
function would bring it all right back.
So, I've liked to go after this by
starting from the user perspective.
So I'm wanna look at this text box and
see what JavaScript is
interacting with that text box.
So I'm gonna grab my selector tool,
and I'm gonna point at the textarea.
Let's make this a little bit bigger.
So this is a text area called
rant-text with some stuff in it.
And I'm gonna take a look at
what the Event Listeners are,
there's a whole bunch of them.
Blur, click, errror, keyup, keyup?
That seems relevant, we're talking about
a feature that goes when the user is
interacting with it, and
keyup is a text interaction.
So we can take a look at it.
There's two different pieces of code and
one of them is ours,
one of them is our own code,
this addRantView.js:12.
So I'm wanna punch in on that,
and we'll take a look.
We see a function here called onChange.
Now, onChange is in event listener
because it takes an event in, and
it looks like we're trying or
doing some sort of safety check here.
We're saying, hey,
we hope the event has a target, but
if it doesn't we're just
gonna create an empty object.
That's a little shortcut mechanism using
Boolean Logic to say event at target or
empty object.
This would help handle the case where
we're getting a manipulated event in
the front door.
And then from the output of this,
we want to grab the value.
If there was value,
we save it in localStorage.
LocalStorage is one of a handful of ways
the browser has of actually persisting
information in the browser itself, not
pushing it out to some remote server or
some remote API.
We can actually see what's in localStorage
and all the other persistent mechanisms,
using the application
section of Chrome Dev Tools.
It's got a whole bunch of stuff and it
lately Chrome has been doing a lot of work
with service workers, and so
that's a big emphasis of this page.
I'm not really gonna talk
about that much today.
But it also has this whole section on
storage, where we can see what sort of
things have been stored in
Local Storage and in Session Storage.
Which are essentially key value pairs
of information that we can store.
So here we can see that there is a key
value pair in Local Storage, called
next-rant with the value of that incorrect
thing that we typed in, in our rant-text.
You can also explore all kinds of other
pieces of storage that your app might
be using, like IndexDB or
Cookies, I don't use cookies.
But back in our code we can say,
all right, so
we're getting the text if
it exists from the event.
And if there was text, we wanna set it.
So, let's attach our debugger again, and
see if we can understand what happens.
So, I add to my debugger,
let's add another key.
The key up event comes in,
we get the change, we see r.Event.
We can evaluate this statement,
I'm just going to step over it.
If you do a lot of debugging,
it's probably a good tip to learn
these key commands down here.
These allow you to quickly and
easily navigate through your code without
needing to worry about your mouse.
So, F10 or Command apostrophe,
I mean it will vary on what operating
system and chrome version you're using.
So if you just see what the key
commands are, it is very helpful for
navigating quickly.
So I'm going to just step over this, and
we can see what to text evaluate out to.
In the current version of Chrome,
it overlays this golden rod background
to text, that shows you in line what
the values of each of the variables
are as they're being declared.
You can also see that down
here in the scope, so
we can see the text value is
Frontend Masters is so lame.
Fake news so sad, blah, blah, blah.
So we've put that into a conditional so
that it will get evaluated.
That will evaluate as truthy and will come
in here and set it into localStorage.
Everything's fine, and we continue.
But debug is, what happens when we
delete everything in the text box?
It's still being remembered.
So I'm going to go through and
delete everything in the text box.
And now,
when we come in we always get the value
of text is evaluated as empty string.
And we're taking that value and
we're putting it into the conditional,
what does empty string get
evaluated to as a Boolean?
>> False.
>> False,
empty string is one of the falsy values,
along with no undefined, not a number.
>> 0.
>> Negative 0.
>> There's one other weird one,
there's like document dot something,
document dot all, or something like that.
At any rate, this is just checking
if it's truthy, or falsy,
which we're saying, because we
cleared out the text it is falsy.
And we skip over this condition, and
we do not update the value of next-rant.
So after this code executed,
if we go and look in the Application
at the value of next-rant,
it is still our unfortunate text.
So we need to make a change here.
This condition appears to be
on like safety checking, and
making sure that we actually have
a value that we would want to set.
But rather than just naively
checking if it's truthy and falsy,
we probably want to set
any value that's a string.
If there is a string that
we've gotten at this point,
that's probably the value of text, or
what we want to set in our localStorage.
So I'm gonna change it
from the simple value,
to let's check what the type of text is.
And if the type of text is any string
value, we should go ahead and set it.
With that in place, I can reload my page.
And if I, Delete the text again,
I popped into my breakpoint.
The value of text is empty string.
But the type of text which we can
evaluate live in the debugger simply
by selecting code, which is super cool.
I can just select over this text and
say the type of text is a string.
Which one it gets compared to string,
we'll proceed on and we set the value.
We take a look at the Application now,
the value in Local Storage is
empty there's nothing there.
And if we reload the page,
our unfortunate rant is gone.
So this was another logical bug,
this was we were evaluating
empty string as falsy instead
of looking at whether or
not an empty string is a valid value for
this purpose.
We looked at the Application Explorer,
which allows you to look at and
interact with any of the things
that you persist in there.
In the most recent version
of Chrome you can even
modify cookies in the Application
Explorer, which is really cool.
And we played around with
breaking execution a bit.